## Understanding `State`

`State` is data created and used by your application which must not be lost.
- User-generated data, user accounts, ...
	- Often stored in a database, but could also be files (e.g. uploads).
- Intermediate results derived by the app
	- Often stored in memory, temporary database tables or files.

### This is why we have Docker `Volumes`
Because we are still dealing with Containers. Kubernetes runs our Docker Containers, so Kubernetes needs to be configured to add Volumes to our Containers.

Kubernetes can mount Volumes into Containers.
- A broad variety of Volume types / drivers are supported.
	- "Local" Volumes (i.e. on Nodes)
	- Cloud-provider specific Volumes
- Volume lifetime depends on the Pod lifetime(because Volume is part of the Pod).
	- Volumes survive Container restarts / removal
	- Volumes are removed when Pods are destroyed
## Kubernetes Volumes vs Docker Volumes

### K8s Volumes
- Supports many different Drivers and Types.
- Volumes are not necessarily persistent.
- Volumes survive Container restarts and removals.

### Docker volumes
- Basically no Driver / Type Support (instead, **Docker volumes are folders** created somewhere **on your host machine**).
- Volumes persist until manually cleared.
- Volumes survive Container restarts and removals.

## Example
[[working with an example]]

💥 Well, whenever Pods crashes or restarts, all the data in the volumes will be lost 🙀

## Types of Volumes

There are many different types of volumes to choose from according to the [documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/).
All these types don't influence how volumes work inside or outside of a container. The difference is how the data is stored outside of the container depends on which type of driver you use.

- [[emptyDir volume]]
	- has a downside that the volumes are destroyed when a Pod is removed
- [[hostPath volume]]
	- has a downside that it only works with `minikube` because it's a "One-Node" environment. With `minikube`, we only have one Worker Node.
- [[CSI volume]]
	- It basically allows you to attach any storage solutions as long as they support integrations (like [AWS EFS CSI driver](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/efs-csi.html)).

### Persistent Volumes (PV)

[[persistent volumes]]
The Persistent Volumes are just independent from the Node.

