Channels are a typed conduit through which you can send and receive values with the channel operator, `<-`.

```go
ch <- v     // Send v to channel ch.
v := <- ch  // Receive from ch, and assign value to v.
```
(The data flows in the direction of the arrow).

Like maps and slices, channels must be created before use:
```go
ch := make(chan int)
```

By default, sends and receives block until the other side is ready. This allows goroutines to synchronize without explicit locks or condition variables.

The below example code sums the numbers in a slice, distributing the work between two goroutines. Once both goroutines have completed their computation, it calculates the final result.

```go
package main

import "fmt"

func sum(s []int, c chan int) {
	sum := 0
	for _, v := range s {
		sum += v
	}
	c <- sum // send sum to c
}

func main() {
	s := []int{7, 2, 8, -9, 4, 0}

	c := make(chan int)
	go sum(s[:len(s) / 2], c)
	go sum(s[len(s) / 2:], c)
	x, y := <- c, <- c

	fmt.Println(x, y, x + y)
	// -5 17 12
}
```

Here'a breakdown:
1. We define the `sum` function:
```go
func sum(s []int, c chan int) {
    sum := 0
    for _, v := range s {
        sum += v
    }
    c <- sum // send sum to c
}
```
- The `sum` function takes a slice of integers `s` and a channel `c` of type `chan int`.
- It calculates the sum of all integers in the slice `c`.
- After calculating the sum, it sends the result into the channel `c` using `c <- sum`.

2. Create a Slice and Channel:
```go
s := []int{7, 2, 8, -9, 4, 0}
c := make(chan int)

```
- The slice `s`  is initialized with six integers.
- A channel `c` is created using `make(chan, int)`, which will be used to receive the results from the `sum` function.

3. Start Two Goroutines:
```go
go sum(s[:len(s) / 2], c)
go sum(s[len(s) / 2:], c)
```
- The slice `s` is divided into two halves using slicing.
- Each half is processed by a separate goroutine, both running the `sum` function concurrently.
- Each goroutine calculates the sum of its respective half and sends the result into the channel `c`.

4. Receiving Values from the Channel:
```go
x, y := <-c, <-c // receive from c
```
- The main function then receives two values from the channel `c`. Since two goroutines have sent values into `c`, `x` and `y` will capture those values.
- The order of values received in `x` and `y` can vary depending on the scheduling of goroutines. However, both values will be sums of one half of the slice each.