A sender can `close` a channel to indicate that no more values will be sent. Receivers can test whether a channel has been closed by assigning a second parameter to the receive expression: after
```go
v, ok := <-ch
```

`ok` is `false` if there are no more values to receive and channel is closed.
The loop `for i := range c` receives values from the channel repeatedly until it is closed.

**Note**: Only the sender should close a channel, never the receiver. Sending on a closed channel will cause a panic.
**Another note**: Channels aren't like files; you don't usually need to close them. Closing is only necessary when the receiver must be told there are no more values coming, such as to terminate a `range` loop.

```go
func fibonnaci(n int, c chan int) {
	x, y := 0, 1
	for i := 0; i < n; i++ {
		c <- x
		x, y = y, x + y
	}
	close(c)
}

func main() {
	c := make(chan int, 10)
	go fibonacci(cap(c), c)
	for i := range c {
		fmt.Println(i)
	}
}

// 0
// 1
// 1
// 2
// 3
// 5
// 8
// 13
// 21
// 34
```

Note that we have two different iterations.

The first loop inside the `fibonacci` function generates the first `n` Fibonacci numbers. Each generated Fibonacci number (`x`) is sent to the channel `c` with `c <- x`. The line `x, y = y, x + y` updates `x` and `y` to the next values in the sequence. After the loop finishes generating `n` values, the channel `c` is closed with `close(c)`. Closing the channel signals that no more values will be sent to it.

The second loop (`range`) is used to receive values from the channel `c` until it is closed. Each time a new value is sent to `c`, it's received by the `range` loop and assigned to `i`, which is then printed. Once the channel is closed (in `fibonacci`), the `range` loop is `main` stops automatically.

So basically, the `for` loop inside `fibonacci` generates values and sends them to `c`, filling the channel with data. The `range` loop in `main` retrieves and processes each value from `c` until the channel is closed.